# DocHelper

DocHelper is a prototypical web application that supports automated bloood-analysis and gives suggestions on possible diseases a patient could have. This was a group project in rge course of a university lecture "eHealth applications". 

## Background and Motivation 
In the course of a patient journey, a diagnosis is made. Almost 10-15% of all diagnoses turn out to be wrong in retrospect. However, this is not due to the doctors' lack of medical knowledge. These misinterpretations are often based on the omission of necessary further examinations and tests as well as the non-reaction or incorrect reaction to findings. 14% of the error lies in the data collection, 50% in the incorrect inclusion of existing information and 33% in the data verification. Doctors can use many different methods for diagnosis. One of these is to take blood from the patient and check whether changes or diseases are recognizable in the blood using blood results. Due to a lack of time or routine, the blood count is often only skimmed over or only the conspicuous values are checked. However, it is important to look at the blood count as a whole in order to understand the correlations between the individual abnormal and abnormal values. This can result in a much broader spectrum of possible diseases and thus the importance and urgency of various tests can be reassessed. This helps to make a reliable and rapid diagnosis and has a positive effect on both patients and doctors.

## Results
Our project is a web application to support doctors in making diagnoses. DocHelper is a disease lexicon based on blood values. Doctors can create patients and save the blood results for them. These findings can then be analyzed. The blood values and their reference values are compared with diseases from a database and all diseases that match the blood values of the findings are displayed in the analysis. Diseases are defined on the basis of increased, decreased and abnormal blood values and each value is given a certain weighting in percentage points. If some values in a blood count are conspicuous, which define a certain disease, and the percentage points of these blood values exceed an individually adjusted threshold value, the disease is displayed in a list. This suggests to doctors that they should take a closer look at this disease and possibly take further important diagnostic steps.
